                         JDBC IN  WAS
In Resources – JDBC-JDBC providers 

1.select the target node 
2.And create a new Jdbc provider by seletcting the credentials like
   1.Data Base Type -(oracle 0r Db2 ....)
   2.Provider type-Db2 Universal Jdbc driver provider.
   3.Implementation Type-Connection pool data source
   4.1.give the path of db2jcc.jar(from db2 user to Was user db2jcc.jar file path)
      2.Native path as opt/ibm/db2/V11.1 or V10.5(default path)
   5.synchronize the changes.
   6.Finally you get a created DB2 Universal JDBC Driver Provider .

Later In Data Sources
 
1.select the target node 
2.Enter a Basic Data Source Information like
  1.Data Source Name and JNDI  name
  2.Select JDBC provider  that is Db2 Universal Jdbc driver provider.
  3.Enter database specific properties for the data source 
      1.Driver Type-4 or 2
      2.Data base Name-db2Inst1
      3.Server Name that is Ip here(db2 Ip)
      4.Port Number-50000(default)
   4.Setup security aliases 
          For this Go To Securty-Global Security
1. Java Authentication and Authorisation Service- J2 authentication Data-Click on New and give Credentials Like
    (Alias,User ID-db2Inst1 ,Password)
2.A Target link will be created here.
3.And Select Above Target link in Setup security aliases In DataSources In 
Component Managment authentication alias.
4.And in Data Source test the Connection.

Note:-
oracle-/u01/app/oracle/product/19.0.0/dbhome_1/jdbc/lib/ojdbc8.jar
db2-/opt/ibm/db2/V11.1/java/db2jcc.jar

           
     JMS CONFIGURATION IN WAS

In Service Integration-Buses
 1.Create New Bus
 2.select the created Bus and synchronise it.
 3.Later Inside created Bus Link add a Member in Bus Members.
          4.select Server With Node which we Created-Filestore-Configure file store -Tune performance parameters.
          5.select the target link and synchronise it.
  
     In Resources-Queue Connection Factories
 1.select the target node 
 2.New-Select JMS resource provider as Default messaging provider
 3.Give credentials like
     1.In administration -Name,JNDI Name
     2.In connection-Bus Name and  synchronise it.
      Later In  Resources-Queues 
          1.select the target node 
          2.Give credentials like
     1.In administration -Name,JNDI Name
             2.In connection-Bus Name,Queue Name and  synchronise it.
    And deploy a application with ip or hostname,port and context root.
    Send the message in application and we can check the store message in
    Note:-Service Integration-Buses-Target Bus Link-Destinations-Queue type link-Queue points- Queue depth Link-Run time-Messages-ID-Message body.

           
                    
